# eFEMpart
Finite Element code in the [Julia language](https://julialang.org/) focused on fluid-dynamics applications, with possibility of including a particle simulator. This is in contrast to a previous "eFEM" package, which did not include the particle simulator code. 

This repository allows the use of Finite Elements discretizations to solve
common problems in fluid dynamics. 

# Meshes

For simple geometries (rectangles...), you can use the built-in 
geometry code but for more complicated geometries we suggest building your mesh with 
an external library (such as [GMSH](http://gmsh.info/)).

# Equations

As of right now, the following equations are solvable:

* Poisson's Equation (`:Poisson2D`)

$$ -\nabla^2 u = f$$

* Darcy's Equation (`:Darcy2D`)

$$ -\nabla\cdot\big(\alpha \nabla u\big) = f$$

* Advection-Diffusion Equation (`:AdvDiff2D`)

$$ -\mathbf{u}\cdot \nabla c = \nabla\cdot\big(\kappa \nabla c\big) + f$$

* Stokes' Equation (`:Stokes2D`)

$$ -\nabla\cdot\big(\mu\mathbb{D}(\mathbf{u})\big) = \nabla p + \mathbf{f}$$
$$ \nabla\cdot\mathbf{u} = 0 $$

* Brinkman's Equation (`:Brinkman2D`)

$$ -\nabla\cdot\big(\mu\nabla\mathbf{u}\big) + \alpha\mathbf{u}= \nabla p + \mathbf{f}$$
$$ \nabla\cdot\mathbf{u} = 0 $$

* Brinkman's Multiphase Equation (`:BrinkmanMP2D`)

$$ -\alpha_1\nabla^2\mathbf{u} + \alpha_2\mathbf{u} + \alpha_3 p = \mathbf{f}$$
$$ \nabla\cdot\mathbf{u} = 0 $$

All parameterized equations can be solvable with either constant or variable-in-space parameters. Additionally, Axisymmetric version of the Advection-Diffusion and Stokes equations are available with the Operator Types of `:AdvDiffAS` and `:StokesAS`, respectively. 

# Auxiliary Information

Boundary conditions are treated intuitively, based on the mesh given. The functions `Dirichlet`, `Neumann`, and `Robin` allow assignment of boundaries to have certain boundary conditions, and the functions `Dirichlet`, `Neumann`, `Forcing` allow for the definition of the actual boundary conditions at these boundaries. See [examples](examples/) for how this is used in practice.

# Visualization

We export all solutions in a [legacy VTK format](https://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf). For visualizing these files, we suggest using [VisIt](https://wci.llnl.gov/simulation/computer-codes/visit/)

# Examples 

Check out the [examples folder](examples/) to see how to use our syntax.

Equations in this `README` were generated by the GitHub app [TeXify](https://github.com/apps/texify)